All right.
Should we get started?
My name is Max Muller.
I'm the director of the iTunes
Store Content Engineering Group.
It's my group's responsibility
for building the infrastructure
for handling all things content,
from content acquisition all the
way through to content delivery
and everything in between.
To set the stage for this session,
we're going to be looking at
the process of taking a final,
finished application and
publishing it to the App Store.
But before we start to talk
about where we're going,
let's first look at where we've been.
April 2003,
Apple launched the iTunes Music Store,
a revolutionary online music store
featuring over 200,000 tracks,
free 30-second previews,
simple one-click purchase and download,
and worry-free transfer to iPod.
Fast forward five years,
as one of the original
iTunes Store engineers,
I can tell you,
it's been an action-packed five years.
Today, the iTunes Store operates
in 22 countries.
It features movies, TV shows,
music videos, audiobooks, podcasts,
and iPod games.
This past quarter,
the iTunes Store reached a major
milestone and is now the largest
retailer of music in the world.
September 2007, Apple launched the
iTunes Wi-Fi Music Store.
Browse, search, preview, purchase,
and download right on
your iPhone or iPod touch.
and this past January,
Apple released the iTunes
Store for Apple TV,
bringing simple HD movie rental
right to your widescreen television.
Apple has accumulated five
years of experience in hosting,
distributing,
and managing online digital content.
and we're building on that
infrastructure now to deliver the
App Store to you and all your friends
and all your friends' friends.
The App Store is really a revolution
in online software distribution.
Apple is handling all the
infrastructure for the App Store by
leveraging everything that
we've built for the iTunes Store.
on the hosting side,
we host over 6 million unique songs.
And we're adding a new song to the
catalog on average every two seconds.
On the distribution front,
the iTunes Store operates
in 22 countries.
And just for you,
adding 40 more countries,
bringing the total to 62
countries that you will be able to
distribute your applications into.
On the payment processing front,
we have over 50 million
accounts in the iTunes Store,
and we've sold over 4 billion songs.
Specific to the App Store,
Apple is bringing a seamless
download and installation experience,
along with an automatic,
unified software update system.
And starting in early July,
Apple is putting the App Store front
and center on every iPhone
and every iPod touch we ship,
as well as integrating the
App Store directly into iTunes.
So in your search for Foo,
not only are you going
to find Foo Fighters,
but you're also going to
find FooBar by Acme Inc.
So what does this mean to you?
This means you get to
focus on the fun part,
writing great applications.
Because you don't have to
worry about credit card,
marketing, or hosting fees.
For commercial distribution,
70% of the proceeds are
going to go straight to you,
the developer.
And free apps are, well,
free.
So at this point,
this is what Apple's bringing
to the table for the App Store.
And now we need a bunch of great
software engineers to write a
bunch of great software and get it
published up onto the App Store.
So let's imagine I'm a great
software developer and I've written
an amazing application called
Touch Fighter and I've gotten
this published up on the App Store.
Let's first start by looking at what
the customer experience of interacting
with Touch Fighter is going to be on
the App Store as well as within iTunes.
So this is what Touch Fighter is
going to look like in a list view.
Someone would have gotten to this
either by browsing or via search.
Notice we're displaying the icon,
the company name,
and the application name,
as well as the average
user rating from our kind,
gentle users.
and this is what a product page for
Touch Fighter is going to look like.
Notice at this point we've added a
description as well as a screenshot.
A customer at this point with one
click would be able to purchase
and download the app and play
Touch Fighter on their phone.
and this is what Touch Fighter is
going to look like in iTunes.
Notice it's the same information
but would now display it
in a full rich iTunes page.
With one click at this point,
the customer could purchase and download
Touch Fighter to their computer.
The next time they plug in their phone,
they could choose to sync the app over
and play Touch Fighter on their phone.
So this is what the customer experience
is with interacting with Touch Fighter on
the App Store as well as with an iTunes.
So now let's talk about you.
How are you going to be able to
publish your application to the
App Store so that it can look
even better than Touch Fighter?
Well, you're in luck.
Publishing your app to the App Store is
a simple five-step process.
The first step is to set up
an account in iTunes Connect.
iTunes Connect is your online web
portal for managing your content and
your presence within the App Store.
iTunes Connect is used
by our music labels,
our TV studios,
our post-production houses,
and our movie studios.
If you can buy and download a piece
of content within the iTunes Store,
someone from that company has
an account in iTunes Connect.
The prerequisite to set up an account
for App Store publishing is that
you must be a standard or enterprise
member of the iPhone developer program.
If you are currently only
developing and running your
application within the simulator,
then grasshopper,
you are not ready to publish
an app to the App Store.
The first time you access
the iTunes Connect,
you're going to want to have your
administrator log in to the iPhone
developer or program portal.
From there, they should click on
the distribution link.
This will talk you through everything
you need to know about setting up
a distribution signing identity,
a distribution provisioning profile,
and it will also have a
link to iTunes Connect.
Once you log into iTunes Connect,
you'll end up here.
This is the home screen.
For App Store users,
there are four modules: Contracts,
Financial Reports, Manage Users,
and Manager Content.
Later on in the presentation,
we'll go into more detail about
all four of these modules.
But for now,
we're done with the first step.
We have an account.
Next up, we're going to add a new app.
To do that,
we log into iTunes Connect and
click "Manage Your Content."
If this is your first time logging
into the content management module,
I highly suggest you download the
user guide linked off the middle part.
The user guide contains detailed
instructions as well as examples
for everything that you will need to
provide to us when you submit your
application through the App Store.
All of your applications
that you previously submitted
would be listed here.
You'll be coming back into this
page to make edits to any of your
metadata that you provided to us,
as well as to provide a new
binary for the update process.
Now, I've already read the user guide,
so I'm going to click on
the upper left-hand button
to add a new application.
The first time you add a new app,
we are going to ask you for
two pieces of information.
The first is your primary
or default language.
This will come into play when we
start to talk about how you localize
your pages within the App Store.
But for now,
what we want to know from you is what
language are you filling out all of
the metadata about your application in?
The second is your company name.
This is your brand within iTunes.
Every application that you
submit to the App Store will be
listed under this company name.
Now, the other thing to point out about
these two pieces of information
is that right now we don't
have any facility to edit them,
so you want to make sure you
get them right the first time.
Next up,
we're going to enter the details or
the metadata about our application.
The first question we're going to
ask you is about export compliance.
The iTunes Store servers are
located within the United States,
and as such,
any time you move a binary to us,
we are going to ask you three
questions about your use of encryption.
The first is,
does your product contain encryption?
The second, is encryption used for
authentication purposes only?
And the third,
is encryption used for the protection of
data or information security purposes?
If you answer yes to the third question,
we are going to require that you upload
a PDF copy of your CCATS file to us.
If you don't know what a CCATS file is,
and you think you might need one,
I'm going to refer you to the U.S.
Department of
Commerce Commercial Encryption
Export Control's website for
further fascinating reading.
Next up is to provide the
details about your application.
This is your application name,
description, categories,
copyright and version information,
as well as an application
and support URL.
and finally a support email and an
end user license agreement if you
have one as well as a SKU number.
Later on in the presentation
we'll go into more detail
about all of these fields,
but for now the only thing I'd like
to point out is that your SKU number
is not on a customer visible field.
It's only used for you for
within your financial reports.
Once you've submitted a SKU number to us,
you cannot change your SKU number.
Next up are your supported devices.
The App Store differentiates
applications between two sets of devices.
An application that works on
the iPhone and the iPod touch
and an iPhone only application.
If, for instance,
your application requires the use
of the camera or the microphone,
you are going to want to indicate
your application as being
an iPhone only application.
It should be noted that iPhone
only applications will be filtered
out and not visible within the
App Store on the iPod touch.
Optionally, if you have categorized
your application as a game,
we are going to ask you to provide
the frequency or intensity level
of the following game advisories.
Based on these game advisories,
we'll determine the rating of
your game within the App Store.
The App Store has four age-based ratings,
4+, 9+, 12+, and 17+. I should
point out that iTunes will offer
parental advisory controls to limit
access to games of certain ratings.
At that point,
we've provided all the metadata
we need to about our application.
Next up is the actual assets.
The first and most important
asset is obviously your binary.
There are a few things that you
need to ensure about your binary
before you upload it to us.
The first is that you have
included a 57 by 57 PNG icon.
Note the rounded corners as well as
shine are automatically applied by
both the App Store and the phone.
If you've chosen to pre-render your icon,
the App Store will respect the
UI pre-rendered icon key if you
set it in your Xcode project.
Next up is your app ID.
You register your app ID within
the iPhone developer portal.
You'll use that app ID to create
a distribution provisioning
profile for your application.
You should set up a separate
distribution provisioning profile
for each unique application that
you plan to submit to the App Store.
Last is to actually
build your application.
Little bit different than building
it for your development or testing.
So in Xcode, you're gonna set your
active SDK to device.
You're gonna set your active
configuration to release.
You're gonna set your code
signing identity to be
your distribution identity.
This is not the same as
your development identity.
And last, you're gonna set your code
signing provisioning profile to
be the distribution provisioning
profile for that application.
After your application has
been built in the Finder,
you're going to compress
it to a zip archive.
This zip archive is what you will
then be uploading to the App Store.
So what about if you get your zip
together and it's 500 megabytes?
Turns out the web experience for
uploading a 500 megabyte file is
what we would call less than ideal.
How we solve this problem for
our music and video partners is
we actually provide software to
them that they then use to upload
terabytes of content to us every week.
So we've taken that same
core infrastructure and we
built a nice Cocoa app called
Application Loader just for you.
With Application Loader,
you log in with your
iTunes Connect account.
Once logged in,
you will see a listing of all of the
applications that you have submitted to
us that are awaiting a binary upload.
selecting one of those applications,
you can then select a zip
file and hit transfer,
at which point you can watch
the progress as your binary
will move up to our servers.
If for whatever reason your
transfer should get interrupted,
you can just hit resume
and pick it right up,
pick it right back up right where it was.
Once the application has
successfully moved to our servers,
you'll get a nice confirmation dialogue
that you'll know that you're done.
Now, we are going to require the
use of Application Loader.
We're going to require the use
of Application Loader if your zip
archive is over 200 megabytes.
However, anyone can elect to use
Application Loader if you are on a
slow or spotty internet connection.
and the last thing to point out is
that we do have a hard limit of two
gigabytes where we will not accept any
archive that is over two gigabytes.
Now, since we are still
within the beta program,
at this point,
we don't want you to upload
a binary to us just yet.
For today,
we're looking at you setting up
all your metadata within iTunes
Connect and we'll notify you at a
later point when we're ready for
you to upload your binary to us.
Next asset that we need is a
512 by 512 version of your icon.
Note, this should be from the exact
same artwork of the icon that
was included in your binary.
and the last asset we need
from you is one screenshot.
Note, if your screenshot
includes the status bar,
we're gonna ask you to crop that out.
You can provide up to four additional
screenshots that will only be
visible within the iTunes Store.
At which point,
we're done with our assets.
Only one step left,
and that is to specify availability.
Availability breaks down to
two pieces of information.
The first is the availability date.
This is the earliest date
that your application can
appear within the App Store.
and the second is distribution.
When you're going through the flow,
worldwide distribution is assumed.
However, if that is not your intent,
for the 22 stores that we currently
operate the iTunes Store within,
you can select which of those
countries you would like your
application to be visible within.
And for the 40 new
stores that we're adding,
you're either opting into those 40
stores or out of those 40 stores.
At this point, if your intention was to
publish a free application,
you've supplied
everything you need to us.
So now let's look at a
commercial application.
For publishing a commercial application,
we add two additional steps.
The first is to set up
your payment information.
And the second is to set up
your application pricing.
Your payment information,
like your account, is a one-time process.
The first thing we're going
to need from you is a signed
paid applications contract.
This can be electronically
assigned by the administrator of
your iTunes Connect organization.
Once we have that signed contract,
we need you to provide three
additional pieces of information.
The first are your finance
and legal contacts.
The second is a bank
account to receive payments.
Note that even if you plan to
distribute commercially in 62 countries,
we only need a single
bank account from you.
Your bank will automatically handle
the currency conversion for you.
and the last thing we need from
you is your tax information.
For developers within the United States,
you can electronically submit your
W-9 form within iTunes Connect.
And for developers outside the US,
you can download your W-8 bin form from
iTunes Connect that you'll then need to
fill out and put back in the mail to us.
To get to your contracts,
log into iTunes Connect,
click on the upper left
module called Contracts.
First time through,
you'll notice contracts and amendments
that you are eligible for are listed
on the top part of the screen.
contracts that you currently have
that are in effect are listed in
the bottom part of the screen.
As part of your iPhone
program developer contract,
it included free distribution.
So here at the bottom,
we see we have one free distribution
contract that is currently in effect.
Once we have signed our
paid applications contract,
we provided our contacts,
our banking information,
as well as our tax information.
The paid applications contract will
drop down into your NFX contracts.
Once Apple has set
everything up on our side,
the green checkbox that you see in the
upper and the bottom left-hand corner
is your sign that you are now clear
for commercial distribution in the 62
countries that we currently operate in.
That's it for the payment information.
Next step is to set up the pricing.
The pricing of your application,
you will be picking a price tier.
Price tier will determine one price tier
maps to all the retail price points and
all the App Stores that we operate in.
For instance,
if I was to choose price tier
10 in the left-hand column,
you'd see what the customer price
reflects in each of the countries.
And on the right-hand side,
you'd see what your proceeds are.
Note that for the 40 additional
countries that we're opening up,
Those that are not within the Eurozone
are all operating on the US dollar.
At this point,
we've provided everything we need
to for publishing a commercial
application to the App Store.
So now let's look at a worldwide app,
either a free or commercial.
In this case,
what we're looking at now is how we
localize the pages within the App Store.
So for that, we had one additional step,
which is to add languages.
The App Store supports the
following supported languages:
English, Dutch, French, German, Italian,
Spanish, and Japanese.
For every application
that you submit to us,
you can provide the following:
application name, description,
application support URLs, support email,
and screenshots in each
one of those languages.
this is all about your
marketing materials.
Your actual binary you will have
localized with the next code.
At this point, we're done.
We have supplied everything to the
App Store for publishing either
a commercial or free application
with localized eyes metadata.
and at this point I'd like
to bring up Ricardo Cortes,
engineering manager
responsible for iTunes Connect.
He's going to walk us through
publishing an app to the App Store.
Ricardo.
Thank you, Max.
So there are three steps in getting
your application up on the App Store.
We need to build it in Xcode.
We need to zip it,
create the metadata and
pricing in iTunes Connect,
and then if it's a large binary,
use Application Loader to
submit it to the iTunes Store.
Let me go ahead and launch Xcode.
First thing you want to do is make sure
that your toolbar is set up correctly.
If you right-click on the
toolbar and customize it,
you want to grab the overview toolbar
and drag it onto your toolbar pane.
As Max alluded to,
you need to set your active
configuration and your active SDK.
You'll see that my active SDK is
set to device iPhone OS 2.0,
and my active configuration
is set to release.
The next step is to ensure
your code signing identity
bits are all set and correct.
If you click on Touch Fighter in
the target section,
bring up the info panel.
To get to it quickly,
you can type code signing.
The code signing section comes up.
You'll see the code signing
identity is set to my distribution
code signing identity.
And my code signing provisioning profile
is set to my distribution profile
that I created within the WWDR portal.
Once you've verified that you
have the code sign identity and
provisioning profile set correctly,
you can go ahead and
build your application.
And as Max alluded to,
the final step after you build your
application is to zip it in Finder.
If you right click on the built product,
you can reveal it in Finder.
I already have my zip there,
I'll delete that one.
And right click on the
app and compress it.
I have a demo folder over here.
I'll drag that to my demo
folder to upload later.
And step one, Xcode is done.
Next, you want to go into iTunes Connect.
Let me launch iTunes Connect.
Using the same login and
password you have for the portal,
On this page, you're brought to the four
modules Max alluded to.
The one of interest right
now is manage your content.
As you can see, I have a game, Solitaire,
that I previously uploaded
on the 7th of June.
Its status is currently
waiting for upload,
so it's a large binary,
or I opted to choose the large binary
flow due to a spotty or slow connection.
Right now,
I'd like to add a new application,
so I'll go ahead and do that.
question is export compliance.
Touch fighter does not
contain any encryption,
so I'll go ahead and
indicate that by choosing no.
And continue on in the flow.
The Overview tab is where you enter
most of your metadata that describes
your particular application.
So I'll go ahead and enter
the application name first.
I have a little cheat sheet here.
Let me grab my application
description from my cheat sheet.
The device is iPhone and iPod touch
for this particular application.
And it is a game.
Due to the fact that I chose
game as my primary category,
I'm now given the option to
choose up to two subcategories.
I'll opt to choose one
subcategory of action.
Note that application name,
application description, device,
and primary category are bolded.
These are required fields.
You're not required to
enter the non-bolded fields.
The copyright.
[Transcript missing]
If you choose game as
your primary category,
you're required to now choose the
advisories that describe the game,
game's content.
Touch Fighter does have some
infrequent and mild use of
cartoon or fantasy violence,
so I will indicate that.
The rest of the advisories do not apply.
After the Rating tab,
we're brought to the Upload pane.
The Upload tab, sorry.
This application is a large binary,
so I'll go ahead and indicate
that with this checkbox.
And move on to the next asset,
which is my 512 by 512 icon.
Click "Upload File."
After you've properly uploaded
the asset to the iTunes Store,
a check indicates success.
After the 512x512,
it's your primary screenshot.
At this point, I'm not going to enter any
additional screenshots.
I'll move on to the next tab in the flow.
The next tab is the Pricing tab.
The availability date
is already set to today.
I would choose Tier 5.
And once the tier is chosen,
a dynamic matrix shows below the tier
to reflect the customer price and
proceeds in each of the App Stores.
You'll see US has a customer price
of $499 and the proceeds are $350.
Let's continue on the flow.
At this point, because I set my primary
language to English,
and this is the
localization I just added,
I now have the option of adding up to
six more localizations for the App Store.
I will go ahead and choose French.
We auto-populate the application title
from the first localization you entered.
The application description is
really the field you'll use to
localize this particular application
for a particular storefront.
Using my cheat sheet,
my five years of French is
not going to pay off here,
so I'll let you guys interpret.
And then, you know,
your support URLs might change
slightly depending on where you are.
So I'll add "fr" to the end.
At the bottom,
you see we auto-populate your
primary screenshot and any
additional screenshots you've
created on your first localization.
You have the option here of changing
them or keeping them as they were
uploaded previously in the flow.
I'll go ahead and continue.
Finally, we reached the Review tab.
This is where you can confirm
all the changes you've made
for all the localizations.
So if we look at the
English localization,
Of course we've got
the application title,
the description is in English.
Device, primary category of games
with a subcategory of action.
Copyright, URLs, email address,
and the generated rating of 9+.
At the bottom,
the chosen tier of Tier 5 with customer
price of $499 and proceeds of $350.
Scrolling up, let's take a look at the
French localization real quick.
We choose the France App Store.
and it loads the localization
for the French language.
As you can see,
the application description
is now in French.
And with that, we're ready to go ahead
and submit our application.
Due to the fact that
I indicated in the flow that my
application was a large binary,
I'm now given the option of downloading
Application Loader with this link here.
I've already downloaded
Application Loader,
so I will skip this step.
and we're brought back to
the first page in the flow.
When you enter manager
content from the home page,
you'll see Solitaire is still there,
as is Touch Fighter.
I indicated in the flow
there was a large binary,
so the binary was not uploaded
through iTunes Connect,
thus the status is waiting for upload.
So with that, we're done with step two.
The last step is to upload the
binary to Application Loader.
Let me launch Application Loader.
The first screen you brought to in
Application Loader is a welcome pane.
and it drives you through a wizard
process through the application.
Your login is obviously the same
login you use for iTunes Connect.
So I'll go ahead and authenticate myself.
At this point,
Application Loader is authenticating
me to ensure I'm enabled to
deliver content to the App Store.
It's done so,
so I'll proceed into the flow.
And now what Application Loader has
done for me is it went and fetched
the applications that I'm enabled
to deliver to the iTunes Store,
namely Solitaire and Touch Fighter,
both which were in the status of
waiting for upload in iTunes Connect.
I'll go ahead and choose Touch Fighter.
Application Loader gives you
a little bit of details about
the application to ensure this
is the application you really,
really want to submit
to the iTunes Store.
So there's the application,
version number, the SKU,
and the copyright.
And now we're ready to
choose our zipped archive,
our zipped binary,
and send it to the App Store.
in my demo folder,
if you recall from Xcode,
is my zipped binary.
I'll go ahead and choose that.
Application Loader comes with
a background activity monitor.
Gives you a little idea of what's
happening behind the scenes.
It's also fully threaded,
so you have the opportunity
to do multiple things at once,
including send two binaries
at once to the App Store.
You can see I've chosen
touchfighter.zip off the file system.
And the last step is to
send it to the iTunes Store.
So I'll go ahead and do that.
We authenticate ourselves,
ensure that you're able
to deliver the package,
then we upload it.
As you can see, the package has been
uploaded to the iTunes Store.
If I click Next in the flow,
I get a confirmation
page indicating success.
Finally, if I click Done, that's it.
I've uploaded my application
in Application Loader.
So to review, three steps.
First,
you've got to code your application.
You've got to set your distribution
profile and your code signing
identity to distribution and Xcode.
Zip it.
Then enter into iTunes Connect,
enter your metadata, set your pricing,
upload your screenshots,
any localizations for
any of the App Stores.
And finally, if you have a large binary
or a spotty connection,
use Application Loader to
deliver it to the App Store.
Thank you.
I'll turn it back to Max.
Thank you, Ricardo.
See, I told you it was easy.
And I'd like to hand it
over to Elizabeth d'Errico.
Elizabeth's team manages the content
for the iTunes stores worldwide.
She's the director of the iTunes store,
iTunes production group.
She's going to walk you through
some of the best practices to
how to make your application
really shine within the App Store.
to the App Store on the device and
to the iTunes Store on the web.
Now I want to talk a little bit about
best practices for how to present and
promote your applications once there.
use us to your advantage.
So when you go to the device,
you're going to be competing amongst
each other for all of the great
applications you're going to be
developing for consumers' eyeballs.
The same way when you come to
the iTunes Store on the desktop,
you're actually going to encounter even
more competition with TV shows and movies
and music and all of the other wonderful
things that are on the iTunes Store.
We want to make sure that those who
are coming in to find your applications
are actually going to find them.
And there's a couple different ways
to do that that I want to talk about.
These tools that we'll talk about
are the same tools that are used
for whether it's a movie studio
or a TV network or a music label.
They all use these same tools,
and now it's your turn.
Best ways of getting your app
noticed and making sure that
your consumers can find you.
We'll talk about being discoverable
on the store and we want to
talk about being compelling.
So once someone has found you,
how to draw someone in and
be more enticing and making
them want to learn more.
And then once they have that piece down,
we want to make sure that they can
actually have all the information
necessary to understand that
they cannot live without your
application one more minute.
that's the goal.
Discoverability.
There's a couple different things to
take a look at to make sure that you
are being as discoverable as possible
in the App Store on the device and
on the iTunes Store on the desktop.
One is simply your application name
and the other is simply the category
that you choose for your application.
As mentioned,
there's certainly a lot of things
going on in both platforms for
you to have competition with.
There's a lot of things we're featuring,
there's a lot of things
that are being promoted,
but really a whole heck of a lot
of people are going in and using
search and browse in order to
find what they're looking for.
So that's what we're going
to take advantage of here.
Looking at search,
your name is really the first thing
that you should pay attention to.
On the device itself,
as you've seen in the list view,
not a lot of room,
not a lot of real estate for a long name.
You have about 20 characters
and that's about it,
otherwise it starts getting truncated.
So just something to think about.
Similarly here as you
see with the blue area,
that's our XML area on the desktop,
and that has segregated buckets
of information so at least you're
understanding the TV shows that
go together and your results and
your movies and your applications.
However, again,
not a whole lot of information.
So you're going to have to
think about what you're going
to use to get your results.
So you're going to have to
think about what you're going
to use to get your results.
So you're going to have to
think about what you're going
to use to get your results.
So you're going to have to think about
what you're going to use to get your
lot of space for your name there.
And then down below, by relevancy,
there's kind of a jumble of
media types all in there,
so really the only thing people are
going to be able to see when trying to
find your application there is the name.
That's the only thing they
can really look at there.
So a couple of things to
think about with your name.
One, do not include the version number.
That is a separate field
as Ricardo has gone over,
and that's something that will occur
in your product page separately.
So this is really your evergreen
name of your application that will
live throughout its lifecycle.
Do not use brands that do not
belong to you to precede your app,
enough said.
Do not use long names as mentioned
because of the real estate issue.
You will get truncated.
Things to help you keep
things short would be to,
if you've got a lot of
serial applications going on,
if you've got Touch Fighter,
the new generation, Tux Fighter,
Extreme Action, Touch Fighter,
Touch Fighter.
If you can avoid it,
don't put Touch Fighter in front
of all of those because again,
what you'll end up with,
especially in a list view,
is just the word Touch Fighter over
and over again and that may not
be the best way to help your user
find what they're looking for.
So simple to the point, concise,
and relevant, if at all possible.
If someone who remembers that fantastic
game that they wanted to go get that
had something to do with fighting,
they want to go look that up,
they will actually be able to
find it if you have the word
fight in your application,
for example.
We'll talk about your application
description here in a little bit,
and that is also indexed and
categorized so that people can
find that in search as well.
So you can take advantage of
the words you're using there,
too, to have a good search
experience for your consumers.
and then browse.
Very simply,
browse is used quite often both
on the phone itself through
use of categorization to browse
through and also on the store,
on the desktop in this view.
Your primary category is that which
follows your application throughout
everything that you're doing so that if
you happen to be found through something
that's being featured or through search,
that primary category is
what will be seen every time
your application is viewed.
Your secondary will be found
using the browse as well.
So if someone's going in to browse,
they can find you in both
categorizations that you've used.
So I encourage you if you
do have two that make sense
to take advantage of that,
use them both.
It also helps us as a promotional tool.
If we're going to do a promotion on
productivity apps or on utility apps,
it helps us to understand, okay,
this is how this person has
categorized this application.
Perhaps it's something we should look
at in terms of doing a promotion.
and then for games, just for the games
category at the moment,
we do have a couple of different
subcategories that are afforded to
you as well as Ricardo has shown.
So now that someone's found you,
what are the best ways to draw
people in more and to entice them to
learn more about your application?
Usually the best way to do
that is through visuals,
very visual creatures,
and that's something that we
have two things that you can
take advantage of to do that,
both your icons and your screenshots.
Users expect gorgeous icons.
So again,
when people are looking at anything
really that's on the Apple platform,
they're going to look for
something that's been well thought
out and beautifully presented.
Same thing on the desktop if
you're being observed there.
Again, gorgeous movie posters,
title treatments from TV,
lovely album artwork.
All of these things are going to
be found within the store right
next to your application and people
are going to expect that your
application icon looks great too.
So here's a couple of things
to do to help achieve that.
One is to always follow the
human interface guidelines.
That can help you to understand
how to use a single light source
and also just how to make your
icon look homogenous with other
things that they'll find from Apple.
Don't scale up.
That's probably the cardinal rule.
If you've got your small 57 by 57
icon that you're putting within your
binary and then you're going to have
the 512 by 512 that you're later
going to put into iTunes Connect,
do not scale that tiny little
thing up into the 512 by 512 or
you'll get a lot of pixelation.
So that's something to think about.
Legibility, again,
icons are by definition iconic.
So you're not going to want to use
a lot of text or small imagery where
people are trying to guess and squint
and figure out what the heck that is.
So you want to use something that's large
and easily identifiable and universal.
This is the one asset that is not
going to be allowed to be localized.
So it's something that you're going to
want to think about in terms of someone
sitting in Japan or Germany or the U.S.
If they're looking at this icon,
do they understand what that
represents and what that is?
Appropriateness, so we're a family store.
We don't want someone coming in
looking for Hannah Montana and Alvin
and the Chipmunks to stumble across
something that is explicit whether
there's some type of nudity or some
type of extreme violence going on.
So keep that in mind as well.
And don't be afraid to consult a
graphic designer professionally.
If that's something that your forte
is developing and you want to get that
app the best that it can work and you'd
rather have someone else doing the
designs for those for your art assets,
there is on the web,
WWDR has an interface design
assistance page at this URL behind me.
And that's something,
somewhere you can go to
find professional help,
at least for your artwork.
make sure you send us your
flat and square artwork.
And as Max mentioned,
that will be rounded and we will
add a rounding and a shine to it.
and that's pretty much the icon.
Screenshots.
So screenshots are found both on
the desktop and on your application,
sorry, and on the device.
And this is really the best way to draw
someone in and have them understand
what it is that your application does.
On the desktop store we have
trailers for movies and we
have 30 second clips for music.
This is the equivalent of
that for your application.
This is really what should give
people a sense of what your app does.
So a couple different ways to
achieve that would be again,
similar to the icon,
you want to make sure it's legible.
You're afforded five screenshots.
If you've got three fantastic
ones and two mediocre ones,
just send in the three.
You really want to just put your best
foot forward for this and show your
best screenshots you possibly can.
Make sure they're legible.
Make sure that you don't have a lot
of small things going on where people
are wondering what's happening there.
You want to make sure that
it represents your app.
If it's gorgeous,
it really doesn't have anything
to do with what you do using
the application day to day,
you're going to want to rethink that
and present something that really
shows off what your app can do.
We've talked about
cultural sensibilities.
Screenshots are able to be localized.
So there may be a restriction somewhere
where there's more sensitivity
to violence or more sensitivity
to nudity or just in general more
sensitivity to certain things.
You'll want to think about that
and actually you can take different
screenshots and localize them.
based upon the knowledge
in different territories.
and also of course set your
iPhone language before taking the
screenshot so that you also are
localizing it not only culturally
but obviously the language as well.
To take the screenshot on the new OS,
you will hold down the power button and
press the home button and the screenshot
will be saved into your camera roll.
So that's the way you can do that.
You can also use Xcode Organizer
which has a nice screenshot tab
that will do the same thing for you.
remove the status bar
from the screenshot,
as I think Max mentioned.
The reason for that is if
you're browsing on the device,
you don't want to have double
screenshot funkiness going on,
so make sure that you crop that out.
and that way you can have
more real estate for your
nice full screen screenshots.
That's the portrait.
Here's the landscape.
Crop that out.
and that's your
screenshots and your icons.
So now that you've drawn someone in
and you've enticed them to learn more,
we want to make sure that when they
get there that the information that
they're viewing is going to help
them make that decision that they,
again,
can't live without your application and
have to hit that buy button right away
or that download button right away.
So a couple different things to
think about when being informative.
Application description is one
of the best ways of doing this.
I encourage you to avoid having too
much or too little going on there.
This is clearly an
example of too much copy.
It could be a beautiful Shakespearean
sonnet about how wonderful your app is,
but no one, unfortunately,
is going to read that.
It actually takes away from
your screenshot as well.
No one can see it.
So this is just way too much information.
So avoid doing that.
You also don't want to have too little.
Saying, you know,
this app rocks or best app ever
is where it's informative about
how you feel about your app.
It doesn't really help people make
that decision that they are going
to want to buy your app because they
won't know exactly what it does.
So just keep that in mind.
can't use HTML tags but I would encourage
you to use line breaks and bullets in
plain text to better set off some of
your copy and make it more legible.
Very quickly, copyright information,
generally the copyright
holder name and the date.
We will append the copyright symbol
so you don't need to include that.
And again, if you can,
keep that as short and succinct
as possible as that will appear
on your product page and can cause
clutter if it's overly verbose.
Version number, again,
the human interface
guidelines can help you here,
but generally a numeral is the
best way to have someone easily
understand exactly where they left off.
And so you can serialize your versions.
SKU number is not user facing,
but I just bring it up to give
a little more detail to it.
If you have a UPC code,
that's the best way that you can
possibly give us that information.
However, if you don't,
it really is just a unique
identifier for your account that
is used to track that information.
And that application.
And that's what you will receive in
your financial reports when you go
to see how much money you've made.
URL and email.
So application URL,
if you've provided it,
that will be on the page
for people to peruse,
to jump over if they want to learn
more information from your site
before purchasing or downloading.
Support URL,
that's something that will not be
placed on the page before they buy,
but after they buy,
they will be given your support
URL to report any problems
they find with the binary.
We will also send people to your
support URL if when we have heard
in our purchase history area if
someone has complained specifically
about problems with the binary,
that's a way that we can
send you that information,
send them to your support URL there.
And the support email
is not being sent out.
It's not going to be visible.
You will not get a deluge of people
to your support email address.
However,
we may contact you if we do find out
that there's a problem with your binary.
That's how we'll communicate with you.
End User License Agreement,
if you have one,
you can provide that and there is
a link as well on the page that
people can peruse that before
they download and purchase.
There are some terms it needs
to just make sure it meets our
minimum requirements and that can
be found both on iTunes Connect,
as Ricardo showed,
by the End User License Agreement field
and also within the contract.
There's some information about that.
If you want someone to specifically
accept your terms and conditions,
the best way to do that is to do
that within the binary itself.
Thinking globally,
we touched on this a little bit,
but iTunes will now be in
62 countries coming up soon.
It's very, very exciting.
And 40 of those countries
are just for you.
40 of those we will have applications.
Now that number in the countries
are subject to change a little bit,
but basically that is
the current situation.
We're very excited about it.
Territory versus language,
just want to touch on this for a second.
Ricardo in the iTunes
Connect where he showed you
you're putting in your language,
that language could be used
across several territories.
For example, in the U.S.
storefront, we allow U.S.
English and we also allow Spanish.
So if someone is sitting and browsing the
iTunes store in the United States with
their OS set to Spanish,
they're going to see the same
Spanish that you put into iTunes Connect.
So I just say that so that you don't
use any local or territory-specific
information in that localization
because it is not territory-specific
in where it will show up.
Creating a single bind.
So you can create a binary with
multiple localizations as Max spoke of.
Being aware of cultural sensibilities,
we touched on that a lot.
Localize your description
professionally or don't do it.
Don't think, "Well, hey,
I've got this great description.
I spent a lot of time on it and it's
native language and now I'm going to,
you know, in a third-party application,
put it up in the web and see what
comes out." Highly unadvisable.
You'll have something like this
that you spent a lot of time on,
you know, "Save the universe and blast
incoming enemy spaceships by
tapping on the iPhone's multi-touch
display." That sounds pretty good.
You put it through your translator.
And for those of you that speak Japanese,
what you're essentially telling people
is the universe that is by hitting with
an iPhone as well as the blasting wind.
So I think that's first not what
you want to say and secondly
it's a little bit frightening.
So I think that people would rather
see that in English and actually
go off of your screenshots and your
icons and other things to help them
make their decision and not frighten
them away with something like that.
Considering app size,
as Steve spoke about in the keynote,
we do have some restrictions here.
We are going to restrict 2
gigabytes for the files themselves.
But if you picture someone sitting
in their local coffee shop having
a latte and you've done such a good
job of drawing them in and making
things compelling and they can't
live without your application,
they're going to download it right now.
And then, oh my goodness,
if they're on Wi-Fi,
it's going to take them at least
two or three lattes before they're
going to have your application.
And if they're on cellular networks,
they actually probably
won't be able to get it.
And if it's under -- sorry,
if it's over 10 megabytes,
they won't be able to get it.
So sometimes it can't be avoided,
obviously, if you have things that
make that footprint creep.
But really, if you can avoid doing that,
that's the best thing.
Last thing I want to leave you
with is additional promotions.
So if we have elected to promote your
application in some way to feature it,
we are going to need some high quality,
high resolution artwork from you.
As you'll notice,
most of the items here in what
we call the top area here,
the things that rotate along
those are called splashes.
The items in the middle
are called bricks.
And then on the device,
the little things we
used are called squishes,
like small splashes.
So for all of those,
we do have things like title
treatments and background artwork.
And we will contact you and tell you,
hey, we would really like to feature you.
Here's what we're going to need from you.
And this information is in the
user guide as well that you can
download from iTunes Connect.
So again, and we need vector artwork and
we need transparent backgrounds
and layers so that if we need to
manipulate it in some way or add a
tag to it that says something like
app just added or something like that,
that we can do so.
and if we're really going to blow it out
and do a fully designed product page,
again,
we just need a large layered image for us
to work with and fit into our templates.
And Touch Fighter is a great app,
so we're definitely
going to feature that.
So again, a lot of this can be
found in the user guide.
And so I encourage you
to take a look at that.
And now that you've seen how you
can get your application published
and how you can best promote it,
I'm going to have Max come back up.
And he's going to talk to you about some
of the things and what happens next.
Thank you, Elizabeth.
All right.
So now you've submitted a great
application to the App Store.
So what's next?
The first thing to point
out is to be prepared.
Make sure that at the time you
submit your binary to us that any
services or external URLs that your
application relies upon are live.
Also make sure that your application
and support URLs are live as well
as your support email address.
Nothing says you care like giving a
customer a 404 when they're trying to get
help about how to use your application.
Assuming issues were not
found with your submission,
you will receive an email notification
and your application will go live,
either immediately or on the
availability date that you specified,
whichever comes later.
If issues were found
with your submission,
Apple will contact you,
at which point you'll have
the option of uploading a new
binary through iTunes Connect,
either through the page or
using an application loader.
Other things you should look at doing are
creating other iTunes Connect accounts
for people within your organization.
If you recall,
only the administrator has an initial
iTunes Connect account created for them,
so they will need to set up
other users and give them admin,
finance, and technical roles,
as well as set their access
privileges and set their email
notification preferences.
One notification that you want to
make sure that you set up and that you
receive is your reporting notification.
We post reports on a monthly basis.
You will receive an email notification
when a report has been posted in
iTunes Connect for you to download.
You will receive one report
per Proceed currency.
Within that report,
it will be grouped by your SKU.
To get to your reports,
you'll log into iTunes Connect and
click on the Financial Reports section.
Every financial report that we
have posted for you will always
be there for you to download.
This way,
if you want to come back and compare
sales for an application three
months ago to how it's doing now,
you'll be able to do that.
Other things that you might look at doing
after you've submitted an application
are making changes to that application.
The App Store differentiates
between two types of changes.
The first are changes to
your marketing material.
This is your description,
your screenshots,
maybe adding a localization,
as well as even changing the price.
For these,
we refer to those as live edits.
Once you've confirmed a live edit,
those changes are going to
get pushed out and start to be
visible within the App Store.
The second type of update is an
actual update to your binary.
For this,
you're going to be using the integrated
update system built into the App Store.
First thing to point out is that
this is not an incremental update.
We're going to ask for you to
provide the entire new binary to us,
and that entire new binary is
what is going to get pushed
to all of your current users.
Second, this works like software update,
so all the updates going
through the system are free.
and the last point to point out is that
your app ID and your bundle identifier
of your previously submitted application
need to match your new binary exactly.
If they do not match,
we're going to reject your binary
back to you and have you correct
that before you can proceed.
And the last thing to point out
is that you cannot become more
restrictive in your supported devices.
If version 1 of your application worked
on the iPhone and the iPod touch,
version 1.1 of your application
cannot be an iPhone-only application.
That's what we call a
bad customer experience.
The process to update your app
binary is you're going to log
in to iTunes Connect and click
on the Manage Content module.
For every application that you
currently have that is live,
you'll have an update link.
When you click on that link,
we are going to ask you for
four pieces of information.
The first is export compliance,
because you're moving a new binary to us.
The second are your release notes.
This is the text that will be
displayed to the user in the
App Store and within iTunes,
explaining why they're getting an update.
For each language that you have
chosen to localize your marketing
message in within the App Store,
we will allow you to provide
release notes in that language.
Next,
we're going to need your new version
number and then your new binary.
I should point out,
this update is going to go
through the same process as your
original application submission.
This time,
when you receive an email notification,
assuming issues were not
found with your update,
your update will now become
live within the App Store.
This means that new customers now
purchasing your application are going to
receive the new version of your binary.
Likewise,
users that have previously purchased
your application will now be
the next time the App Store or
iTunes phone's home for updates,
your update will appear there.
We will always offer the
latest update to a user,
meaning if I purchased a 1.0
version of an application,
and since then you've
come out with a 1.1,
a 1.2, and a 1.3,
when the App Store phone's home,
I will be offered the 1.3 version of your
application within the update process.
So let's now look at how you can
get ready for the App Store today.
First step is if you
haven't already done so,
you're going to want to apply to
the paid iPhone developer program.
Second step is you're going to want to
make sure that your administrator logs
into the iPhone developer program portal.
They're going to follow
the link to iTunes Connect.
If you're interested in
commercial distribution,
you want to get that signed paid
application contract going as well
as get all the other information
submitted to us so we can start
the setup process on our side.
And the last step that you should
get started on today to get ready
for the App Store is to submit all
the metadata about your application.
Start that process going today.
In summary,
the App Store will be an amazing
experience for users to find
and discover great applications
that they can't live without.
your applications.
Because for you, the App Store is an
incredible experience.
Or incredible opportunity.
And experience.
For you to leverage Apple's
infrastructure for distribution,
installation, and updates.
For you to reach iPhone and iPod
touch users in 62 countries.
And for you to use simple and intuitive
tools to manage your content and
your presence within the App Store.
So, early July,
the train is leaving the station.
actually trains a bad metaphor.
The roller coaster is
leaving the station.
Early July, we want each and every
one of you to be on board,
strapped in, and ready for the ride.
So to get more information,
as mentioned before, the user guide,
iTunes Connect, manage your content,
makes for great bedtime reading.
If you're interested in
commercial distribution,
download a PDF copy of the
paid applications contract
from iTunes Connect.
Also makes for great bedtime reading.
Last up are the labs,
located on the first level,
operating Wednesday and
Thursday from noon until 6:00
and Friday from noon until 4:00.
App Store experts are on hand
to answer any questions you
have about the App Store.
Go into anything covered in this
presentation in more detail.
We're not doing QA within this session,
so if you have questions,
I highly encourage you
to go to the App Store.
and last up are the related sessions.
This morning was the iPhone application
development fundamentals at 9:00 a.m.
If you slept in and missed it,
at the conclusion of the conference,
certain sessions will be
posted online for attendees.
Tomorrow at 9:00 a.m.
is the iPhone application user interface
design and tomorrow at 2:00 p.m.
is internationalizing your software.
And with that,
I'd like to say thank you for
coming and have a good week.